[Concept]: Add Number (#352)
exercism/crystal: concept-wip/numbers/about.md

Int can be both negative and positive, and doesn't have a decimal point.

```crystal
1.class
# => Int32

-1.class
# => Int32
```

Float represents numbers with a decimal point, Floats can be both negative and positive.

```crystal
10.5.class
# => Float64

1.0.class
# => Float64
```

On numbers, you can use the [basic arithmetic operators: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, and `%`][math].

## Converting between Int and Float

You can convert between Int and Float using the `to_i` and `to_f` methods.
When converting from Float to Int the number is rounded down.

```crystal
1.to_f
# => 1.0

1.0.to_i
# => 1

1.9.to_i
# => 1
```

## Arithmetic operators

You can use the basic arithmetic operators on Int and Float.
The operators are `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, and `%`.
You can mix and match Int and Float when using these operators.

### Addition & Subtraction

Addition and subtraction are used to add or subtract numbers.
The `+` operator is used for addition and the `-` operator is used for subtraction.
When having an operation with a Float and an Int the result will be a Float.
The result will be an Int if both numbers are Ints.

```crystal
1 + 1
# => 2

1.0 + 1
# => 2.0

4.5 - 1.2
# => 3.3

> ```

Author: I decided to combine Addition & Subtraction & Multiplication, do you think this is satisfactory or should I cut down it more?

### Addition & Subtraction & Multiplication

Addition and subtraction are used to add or subtract numbers.
The `+` operator is used for addition, the `-` operator is used for subtraction, and the `*` operator is used for multiplication.

| Operator | Example        |
| -------- | -------------- |
| `+`      | `4 + 6 => 10`  |
| `-`      | `15 - 10 => 5` |
| `*`      | `2 * 3 => 6`   |

### Multiplication & Division

Multiplication is used to multiply numbers.
The `*` operator is used for multiplication.
When having an operation with a Float and an Int the result will be a Float.

```crystal
2 * 2
# => 4

2.0 * 2
# => 4.0
```

Division is used to divide numbers.
The `/` operator is used for division.
The result will always be a Float.

```crystal
4 / 2
# => 2.0

4.0 / 2
# => 2.0

> ```

Author: Parts of it are precious, I don't directly say it but here crystal makes a big step away from ruby, with how it handles division.

So the division part is required. The multiplication part, is perhaps not as needed.

> ````exercism/caution

Author: Yes I know, although it says you may also use backticks. I use it because my formatter doesn't like tildes.

In some programming languages when dividing by zero the result will be an error.

In Crystal when dividing by zero the result will be `Infinity` or `-Infinity`.
The Only exception is when dividing zero by zero, which will result in `NaN` (Not a Number).
Infinity and NaN are special values in the Float type.

```crystal
1 / 0
# => Infinity

-1 / 0
# => -Infinity

0 / 0
# => NaN
```
````

## Integer division

Integer division is used to divide numbers and get the whole part of the result.
The result will always be rounded down to an Int.

```crystal
4 // 2
# => 2

4.0 // 2
# => 2

4.5 // 2
# => 2
```

````exercism/caution
When dividing by zero when using integer division results in a `DivisionByZeroError`.

> This is different from normal division.

Author: I think this comment is for the whole markdown file?

I like to have a bit deeper explanation of species, and what I usually go over with myself is, how is this different from Ruby?

Since that is where most Crystal developers come from.
The crystal number system is based more on pythons than rubys (Not that they are super different but there are differences). I guess it is thereby I got a bit deeper.

I think some parts are there benefits of going a bit deeper on, and give a couple of examples. With the next update which I am going to push very soon. So has the doc been reduced in size. I am open to suggestions of further reductions to parts, but I think there are benefits to keeping some examples.

# Numbers

Crystal has a type `Number` which is the base type for all numeric types.
Inside of the Number type there are two main types: `Int` and `Float`.
Int is short for integer and represents whole numbers.
Int can be both negative and positive, and doesn't have a decimal point.

```crystal
1.class
# => Int32

-1.class
# => Int32
```

Float represents numbers with a decimal point, floats can be both negative and positive.

```crystal
10.5.class
# => Float64

1.0.class
# => Float64

> ```

Reviewer: Below in `hints.md` you mention to not worry about specific types and to just use `Int` and `Float`, but is it worth mentioning that the `32` and `64` shown here indicate the size? It might be confusing to have the `class` of these literals not match `Int` and `Float` without any mention of why this is.

On numbers you can use the basic arithmetic operators: `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, and `%`.

## Converting between Int and Float

You can convert between Int and Float using the `to_i` and `to_f` methods.
When converting from Float to Int the number is rounded down.

```crystal
1.to_f
# => 1.0

1.0.to_i
# => 1

1.9.to_i
# => 1
```

## Arithmetic operators

You can use the basic arithmetic operators on Int and Float.
The operators are `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, and `%`.
You can mix and match Int and Float when using these operators.

### Addition & Subtraction

Addition and subtraction are used to add or subtract numbers.
The `+` operator is used for addition and the `-` operator is used for subtraction.

> When having an operation with a float and an int the result will be a float.
> The result will be an int if both numbers are ints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When having an operation with a Float and an Int the result will be a Float.
The result will be an Int if both numbers are Ints.
```

```crystal
1 + 1
# => 2

1.0 + 1
# => 2.0

4.5 - 1.2
# => 3.3
```

### Multiplication & Division

Multiplication is used to multiply numbers.
The `*` operator is used for multiplication.

> When having an operation with a float and an int the result will be a float.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When having an operation with a Float and an Int the result will be a Float.
```

```crystal
2 * 2
# => 4

2.0 * 2
# => 4.0
```

Division is used to divide numbers.
The `/` operator is used for division.

> The result will always be a float.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result will always be a Float.
```

```crystal
4 / 2
# => 2.0

4.0 / 2
# => 2.0
```

````exercism/caution
In some programming languages when dividing by zero the result will be an error.

In Crystal when dividing by zero the result will be `Infinity` or `-Infinity`.

> Only exception is when dividing zero by zero, which will result in `NaN` (Not a Number).

Reviewer: Should you mention that `Infinity`, `-Infinity`, and `NaN` are Float values?

```crystal
1 / 0
# => Infinity

-1 / 0
# => -Infinity

0 / 0
# => NaN
```
````

## Integer division

Integer division is used to divide numbers and get the whole part of the result.

> Which will always be an integer, by rounding down the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result will always be rounded down to an Int.
```

```crystal
4 // 2
# => 2

4.0 // 2
# => 2

4.5 // 2
# => 2
```

````exercism/caution

> When dividing by zero when using integer division results in a DivisionByZeroError.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dividing by zero when using integer division results in a DivisionByZeroError.
```

> Which is different from when using normal division.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is different from normal division.
```

```crystal
1 // 0
```

```console
Unhandled exception: Division by 0 (DivisionByZeroError)
  from /usr/share/crystal/src/int.cr:145:7 in 'check_div_argument'
  from /usr/share/crystal/src/int.cr:109:5 in '//'
  from test.cr:1:3 in '__crystal_main'
```
````

### Modulus

Modulus is used to get the remainder of a division.
The `%` operator is used for modulus.

```crystal
5 % 2
# => 1

5.0 % 2
# => 1.0

5 % 3
# => 2
```

Another way to think about modulus:

```crystal
whole_part = (5/3).to_i
# => 1

decimal_part = 5/3 - whole_part
# => 0.6666666666666666

remainder = decimal_part * 3
# => 2.0
```

````exercism/caution

> When dividing by zero when using modulo results in a DivisionByZeroError.
> Which is different from when using normal division.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dividing by zero when using modulo results in a DivisionByZeroError.
This is different from normal division.
```

```crystal
1 % 0
```

```console
Unhandled exception: Division by 0 (DivisionByZeroError)
  from /usr/share/crystal/src/int.cr:165:5 in `%`
  from test.cr:1:3 in '__crystal_main'
```
````

## Rounding

> You can round a float to a certain number of decimal places using the `round` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can round a Float to a certain number of decimal places using the `round` method.
```

> The `round` method takes an optional argument which is the number of decimal places to round to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `round` method takes an optional argument that specifies the number of decimal places to round to.
```

The default number of decimal places is 0.

```crystal
1.0.round
# => 1

1.5.round
# => 2

1.5.round(1)
# => 1.5

1.234.round(2)
# => 1.23
```

### Rounding up and down

> You can also round up or down using the `ceil` and `floor` methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also round up or down to an Int by using the `ceil` and `floor` methods.
```

The `ceil` method rounds up and the `floor` method rounds down.

```crystal
1.0.ceil
# => 1

1.2.ceil
# => 2

1.0.floor
# => 1

1.7.floor
# => 1
```

## Priority and parentheses

Crystal allows parentheses(`()`) which can be used to group expressions.
This is useful when you want to change the order of operations.

```crystal
2 + 3 * 4
# => 14

(2 + 3) * 4
# => 20
```

When using multiple arithmetic operators the order of operations is the same as in mathematics, also known as PEMDAS.

> Which follows tha order of parentheses(`()`), exponents(`**`), multiplication(`*`) and division(`/`), and addition(`+`) and subtraction(`-`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It follows the order of parentheses(`()`), exponents(`**`), multiplication(`*`) and division(`/`), and addition(`+`) and subtraction(`-`).
```
